README.md, before:

# CarbonMate - VS Code Extension

A VS Code extension that provides Carbon Design System token suggestions for SCSS files. Automatically detects SCSS files and suggests Carbon spacing tokens when writing CSS properties like margin and padding.

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.0-blue.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=your-username.carbonmate)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-green.svg)](LICENSE)

## Features

- **SCSS File Detection**: Automatically activates when editing SCSS files
- **Carbon Spacing Tokens**: Provides suggestions for all Carbon Design System spacing tokens
- **Smart Suggestions**: Only shows spacing token suggestions when writing margin or padding properties
- **Rich Documentation**: Each token includes rem and px values with descriptions
- **Hardcoded Value Detection**: Detects hardcoded spacing values and suggests Carbon token replacements
- **Import Awareness**: Ensures proper `@use '@carbon/layout';` import is present
- **Performance Optimized**: Only processes active SCSS files for better performance

## Carbon Spacing Tokens

The extension provides suggestions for all 13 Carbon spacing tokens:

| Token | rem | px | Description |
|-------|-----|----|-------------|
| `layout.$spacing-01` | 0.125rem | 2px | Smallest spacing increment |
| `layout.$spacing-02` | 0.25rem | 4px | Small spacing increment |
| `layout.$spacing-03` | 0.5rem | 8px | Extra small spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-04` | 0.75rem | 12px | Small spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-05` | 1rem | 16px | Medium spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-06` | 1.5rem | 24px | Large spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-07` | 2rem | 32px | Extra large spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-08` | 2.5rem | 40px | 2XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-09` | 3rem | 48px | 3XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-10` | 4rem | 64px | 4XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-11` | 5rem | 80px | 5XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-12` | 6rem | 96px | 6XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-13` | 10rem | 160px | 7XL spacing |

## Installation

### From VSIX (Local Installation)
1. Download the latest `.vsix` file from the [Releases](https://github.com/your-username/vscode-CarbonMate/releases) page
2. In VS Code, go to Extensions (`Ctrl+Shift+X`)
3. Click the "..." menu and select "Install from VSIX..."
4. Choose the downloaded `.vsix` file

### From Source
1. Clone this repository
2. Run `npm install`
3. Run `npm run compile`
4. Press `F5` to run the extension in a new VS Code window

## Usage

### 1. Token Suggestions

1. Open a SCSS file in VS Code
2. Add `@use '@carbon/layout';` at the top of the file
3. Start typing a spacing property (margin, padding, etc.)
4. Type `$` to trigger the suggestions
5. Select a Carbon spacing token from the dropdown

### 2. Hardcoded Value Replacement

1. Open a SCSS file with `@use '@carbon/layout';` import
2. Select any hardcoded spacing value (e.g., `16px`, `1rem`, `2em`)
3. Use `Ctrl+Shift+P` (or `Cmd+Shift+P`) to open command palette
4. Look for "Refactor" options to replace with Carbon tokens
5. The extension will suggest the closest Carbon token

### Example

```scss
@use '@carbon/layout';

.my-component {
  // Manual token usage
  margin: layout.$spacing-05;    // ✅ Correct Carbon syntax
  padding: layout.$spacing-03;   // ✅ Correct Carbon syntax
  
  // Hardcoded values that can be replaced
  margin: 16px;                 // 🔄 Can be replaced with layout.$spacing-05
  padding: 24px;                // 🔄 Can be replaced with layout.$spacing-06
}
```

## Hardcoded Value Detection

The extension can detect and suggest replacements for:

- **Pixel values**: `16px`, `24px`, `32px`, etc.
- **Rem values**: `1rem`, `1.5rem`, `2rem`, etc.
- **Em values**: `1em`, `1.5em`, `2em`, etc.

### Replacement Logic

- **Exact matches**: Direct replacement with corresponding Carbon token
- **Close matches**: Suggests the closest Carbon token (within 8px difference)
- **Far matches**: No suggestion (values too far from Carbon tokens)

### Examples

| Original Value | Suggested Carbon Token | Difference |
|----------------|----------------------|------------|
| `16px` | `layout.$spacing-05` | 0px (exact) |
| `18px` | `layout.$spacing-05` | 2px |
| `24px` | `layout.$spacing-06` | 0px (exact) |
| `1rem` | `layout.$spacing-05` | 0px (exact) |
| `2em` | `layout.$spacing-07` | 0px (exact) |

## Commands

- `CarbonMate: Fix All Hardcoded Spacing Values` - Replace all hardcoded spacing values in the current file
- `CarbonMate: Refresh Code Check` - Manually refresh the code analysis

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- VS Code

### Setup

1. Clone the repository
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/vscode-CarbonMate.git
   cd vscode-CarbonMate
   ```

2. Install dependencies
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Compile the extension
   ```bash
   npm run compile
   ```

4. Press `F5` to run the extension in a new VS Code window

### Build Commands

```bash
npm run compile    # Compile TypeScript
npm run watch      # Watch for changes and recompile
npm run lint       # Run ESLint
```

### Creating a VSIX Package

```bash
npm install -g vsce
vsce package
```

This will create a `.vsix` file that can be installed in VS Code.

## Configuration

The extension can be configured through VS Code settings:

- `carbonmate.enable`: Enable/disable the extension (default: true)

## Dependencies

- `@carbon/layout`: Carbon Design System layout tokens
- `@types/vscode`: VS Code extension API types
- `typescript`: TypeScript compiler

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Issues

If you find any issues or have suggestions, please [open an issue](https://github.com/your-username/vscode-CarbonMate/issues) on GitHub.

## License

This project is licensed under the ISC License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Carbon Design System](https://carbondesignsystem.com/) for the spacing tokens
- [VS Code Extension API](https://code.visualstudio.com/api) for the development framework

Commit message:

docs: update README to clarify magic number replacement process and enhance quick fix instructions

README.md, after:

# CarbonMate - VS Code Extension

A VS Code extension that provides Carbon Design System token suggestions for SCSS files. Automatically detects SCSS files and suggests Carbon spacing tokens when writing CSS properties like margin and padding.

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.0-blue.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=your-username.carbonmate)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-green.svg)](LICENSE)

## Features

- **SCSS File Detection**: Automatically activates when editing SCSS files
- **Carbon Spacing Tokens**: Provides suggestions for all Carbon Design System spacing tokens
- **Smart Suggestions**: Only shows spacing token suggestions when writing margin or padding properties
- **Rich Documentation**: Each token includes rem and px values with descriptions
- **Hardcoded Value Detection**: Detects hardcoded spacing values and suggests Carbon token replacements
- **Import Awareness**: Ensures proper `@use '@carbon/layout';` import is present
- **Performance Optimized**: Only processes active SCSS files for better performance

## Carbon Spacing Tokens

The extension provides suggestions for all 13 Carbon spacing tokens:

| Token | rem | px | Description |
|-------|-----|----|-------------|
| `layout.$spacing-01` | 0.125rem | 2px | Smallest spacing increment |
| `layout.$spacing-02` | 0.25rem | 4px | Small spacing increment |
| `layout.$spacing-03` | 0.5rem | 8px | Extra small spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-04` | 0.75rem | 12px | Small spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-05` | 1rem | 16px | Medium spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-06` | 1.5rem | 24px | Large spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-07` | 2rem | 32px | Extra large spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-08` | 2.5rem | 40px | 2XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-09` | 3rem | 48px | 3XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-10` | 4rem | 64px | 4XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-11` | 5rem | 80px | 5XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-12` | 6rem | 96px | 6XL spacing |
| `layout.$spacing-13` | 10rem | 160px | 7XL spacing |

## Installation

### From VSIX (Local Installation)
1. Download the latest `.vsix` file from the [Releases](https://github.com/your-username/vscode-CarbonMate/releases) page
2. In VS Code, go to Extensions (`Ctrl+Shift+X`)
3. Click the "..." menu and select "Install from VSIX..."
4. Choose the downloaded `.vsix` file

### From Source
1. Clone this repository
2. Run `npm install`
3. Run `npm run compile`
4. Press `F5` to run the extension in a new VS Code window

## Usage

### 1. Token Suggestions

1. Open a SCSS file in VS Code
2. Add `@use '@carbon/layout';` at the top of the file
3. Start typing a spacing property (margin, padding, etc.)
4. Type `$` to trigger the suggestions
5. Select a Carbon spacing token from the dropdown

### 2. Magic Number Replacement

1. Open a SCSS file with `@use '@carbon/layout';` import
2. Notice CarbonMate underlines hardcoded spacing values (e.g., `16px`, `1rem`, `2em`)
3. Use `Ctrl+.` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+.` (Mac) to quick fix one of the selected value - the extension will suggest the closest Carbon token
4. Alternatively:
   - Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+Shift+P` (Mac)
   - Type `CarbonMate`
   - Select `Fix all hardcoded spacing values`
5. The extension will automatically replace all hardcoded values with their closest matching Carbon tokens in the file

### Example

```scss
@use '@carbon/layout';

.my-component {
  // Manual token usage
  margin: layout.$spacing-05;    // ✅ Correct Carbon syntax
  padding: layout.$spacing-03;   // ✅ Correct Carbon syntax
  
  // Hardcoded values that can be replaced
  margin: 16px;                 // 🔄 Can be replaced with layout.$spacing-05
  padding: 24px;                // 🔄 Can be replaced with layout.$spacing-06
}
```

## Hardcoded Value Detection

The extension can detect and suggest replacements for:

- **Pixel values**: `16px`, `24px`, `32px`, etc.
- **Rem values**: `1rem`, `1.5rem`, `2rem`, etc.
- **Em values**: `1em`, `1.5em`, `2em`, etc.

### Replacement Logic

- **Exact matches**: Direct replacement with corresponding Carbon token
- **Close matches**: Suggests the closest Carbon token (within 8px difference)
- **Far matches**: No suggestion (values too far from Carbon tokens)

### Examples

| Original Value | Suggested Carbon Token | Difference |
|----------------|----------------------|------------|
| `16px` | `layout.$spacing-05` | 0px (exact) |
| `18px` | `layout.$spacing-05` | 2px |
| `24px` | `layout.$spacing-06` | 0px (exact) |
| `1rem` | `layout.$spacing-05` | 0px (exact) |
| `2em` | `layout.$spacing-07` | 0px (exact) |

## Commands

- `CarbonMate: Fix All Hardcoded Spacing Values` - Replace all hardcoded spacing values in the current file
- `CarbonMate: Refresh Code Check` - Manually refresh the code analysis

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- VS Code

### Setup

1. Clone the repository
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/vscode-CarbonMate.git
   cd vscode-CarbonMate
   ```

2. Install dependencies
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Compile the extension
   ```bash
   npm run compile
   ```

4. Press `F5` to run the extension in a new VS Code window

### Build Commands

```bash
npm run compile    # Compile TypeScript
npm run watch      # Watch for changes and recompile
npm run lint       # Run ESLint
```

### Creating a VSIX Package

```bash
npm install -g vsce
vsce package
```

This will create a `.vsix` file that can be installed in VS Code.

## Configuration

The extension can be configured through VS Code settings:

- `carbonmate.enable`: Enable/disable the extension (default: true)

## Dependencies

- `@carbon/layout`: Carbon Design System layout tokens
- `@types/vscode`: VS Code extension API types
- `typescript`: TypeScript compiler

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Issues

If you find any issues or have suggestions, please [open an issue](https://github.com/your-username/vscode-CarbonMate/issues) on GitHub.

## License

This project is licensed under the ISC License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Carbon Design System](https://carbondesignsystem.com/) for the spacing tokens
- [VS Code Extension API](https://code.visualstudio.com/api) for the development framework
